# Disaster Response Pipeline

### ML for categorizing messages during a disaster

This is a webapp which can automatically categorize text messages according to their relationship to a disaster that is happening. It also provides some summary information about the types of messages which are sent as a disaster is happening. This code has been developed as part of the "Data Scientist Nanodegree Program" with Udacity. Data have been provided to Udacity from [Appen](https://www.figure-eight.com/).

## Motivation
Something Something

## Setup
1. Clone this repo, then set up a virtual environment in the project root:

    ```cmd
    \\\Disaster_Response_App> python -m venv venv
    ```

2. Activate the virtual environment and install requirements with pip:

    ```cmd
    (venv) \\\Disaster_Response_App> python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. When running for the first time, you will need to set up your database and build your model:

    ```cmd
    (venv) \\\Disaster_Response_App> cd disaster-response-pipeline-project
    (venv) \\\Disaster_Response_App\disaster-response-pipeline-project> python data/process_data.py data/disaster_messages.csv data/disaster_categories.csv data/DisasterResponse.db
    (venv) \\\Disaster_Response_App\disaster-response-pipeline-project> python models/train_classifier.py data/DisasterResponse.db models/classifier.pkl
    ```

4. To run the webapp locally, run the following:
    ```cmd
    (venv) \\\Disaster_Response_App> cd disaster-response-pipeline-project\app
    (venv) \\\Disaster_Response_App\disaster-response-pipeline-project\app> python run.py
    ```

5. On windows, navigate to the links provided in the cmd window to view the webapp.

## Repo contents
The notebooks directory contains ipython notebooks that were used to explore the data provided by Appen and to develop processes for cleaning the data and modeling a classifier based on it.

The directory "disaster-response-pipeline-project" contains a flask app which runs the "Disaster Response Project" webapp. Raw data for this project is included in the "disaster-response-pipeline-project\data" directory as csv files. Only the raw data is included in this repo - intermediate data and model files must be generated by following the directions in "disaster-response-pipeline-project\README.md".

## Data
[Appen](https://www.figure-eight.com/) has provided Udacity users with a dataset of around 26000 pre-labeled text messages which have been sent during a natural disaster. There are 36 possible labels for each message, and a single message can have more than one label that describes it. For instance, the message "Is the Hurricane over or is it not over" has been tagged with the following labels: "related", "aid_related", "other_aid", "weather_related", and "storm".



## Acknowledgments
Acknowledge!